- [Instructor] The WebSphere Application
Server Migration Toolkit provided by IBM
is another tool that we can use to assist
with Java migrations.
Similar to the binary scanner,
this tool helps us identify potential migration issues
within a Java application.
However, this time with tight Eclipse integration.
The tight integration with the IDE
may be preferred by some developers,
because it allows you to inspect the source code
alongside the scan conducted by the tool.
This is a little bit different than the binary scanner
where we worked with the command line interface.
In order to get started,
we're going to add the plugin to Eclipse.
So to do that, we can simply place the browser
and Eclipse next to each other,
and then you'll see this install option
on the website for the tool.
If you drag this icon onto the toolbar in Eclipse
it will automatically open up a dialog
for the Eclipse marketplace.
And we can begin to download the plugin
for the IBM WebSphere Application Server Migration Toolkit.
So with that in place, just go ahead, hit confirm,
and it will start to pull down the tool,
we'll accept the license terms and then hit finish.
At this point, the software will begin to install.
Once the software has been installed,
we'll be prompted to restart Eclipse.
I'll go ahead and click on Restart now.
Now that Eclipse has restarted,
we can begin to analyze our application.
To start the analysis,
we can right click on our project,
and then we'll see the option for the software analyzer.
Here we can click on the software analyzer configurations
to open a dialog where we can configure our scanner.
To do that, we can right click on the software analyzer,
and we're going to create a new configuration.
You'll notice that we can give the configuration a name,
so I'm going to name this Java11Migration.
And then we're going to set up some of the parameters
for this configuration.
On the scope tab,
you'll notice that we can select from the projects
that we would like to scan.
Now we only have one project within our workspace,
but I'm going to go ahead and click on
analyze selected projects,
and then select the project
just to limit the scope of the scan
to our particular project.
If we had multiple projects in the workspace,
this would cause them not to be scanned,
and we can focus our scan on a specific project.
From there, we can go ahead and select the rules tab.
And this allows us to choose a rule set
that we would like the scan to use.
The most convenient rule set to select
is the WebSphere Application Server version migration.
So go ahead and click on this option, and then click on set.
This is going to bring up another dialog,
where we're able to input some information
about the migration that we'd like to perform.
On this dialog, all we need to do
is make sure that the first few options match.
So we're going to migrate
from the source application server Liberty Core,
to the target application server Liberty core.
And what we're doing
is just making all of these options similar,
so that we can go down and change our Java version
from Oracle 8 to Java 11.
And this will only cause the tool
then to consider changes in Java.
All right, with that in place,
let's go ahead and click on OK.
Then I'm going to apply the changes to this configuration.
And then we'll go ahead and kick off the analysis.
Okay, we can see that the analysis was conducted.
So I'm going to maximize that tab.
And you'll notice
within the Java code review for our project,
it's going to list the findings from the scan.
Now, these findings should look pretty familiar
because they are the same ones
that we saw for the binary app scanner.
This time however,
with the tight IDE integration,
we're able to dive into a particular finding,
and then navigate to the exact line of source code
that triggered the finding.
So this is a little bit more useful
than the command line interface
and the output it provides.
Okay, so using the tool
we've identified and pinpointed
the issues we'll need to correct
in order to successfully migrate our application
to Java 11.
We're able to work right within Eclipse
and use the output of the scan
to quickly resolve any issues.